> Goal: Got some basic reverse skill on android app

# Inside the apk
- APK (Android application package) is an app creator for Android, it contains all the elements that an app
needs to install correctly on mobile device
- Like EXE on windows, you can place APK file on mobile device to install. Manually installing apps using APK
is called sideloading
- Below is a list describing the most prominent files and folders:
	- META-INF/: Contains the manifest file, signature, and a list of resources in the archive
	- lib/: Native libraries that run on specific device architectures (armeabi-v7a, x86, etc.)
	- res/: Resources, such as images, that were not compiled into resources.arsc
	- AndroidManifest.xml: Describes the name, version, and contents of the APK file
	- classes.dex: The compiled Java classes to be run on the device (.DEX file)
	- resources.arsc: The compiled resources, such as strings, used by the app (.ARSC file)
- APK files are a type of archive file, specifically in zip format-type packages, based on the JAR file format,
with .apk as the filename extension.
- So we first unzip it:
- We can see what we said above
- But it’s not good enough for our reversing phase ( because it’s just unzip, and most of the file is in binary format).
- Let Decompile it!

# Decompile APK - APKTool

- `APKTool` is the very first tool you want to use, it is capable of decompiling the `AndroidManifest` file to its original
XML format, the `resources.arsc` file and it will also convert the `classes.dex` (and classes2.dex if present) file to an
intermediary language called `SMALI`, an ASM-like language used to represent the Dalvik VM opcodes as a human
readable language.
- Type command:
```bash
apktool d InsecureBankv2.apk
```
- Once finished, the InsecureBankv2 folder is created and you’ll find all the output of `apktool` in there (included `smali` code).
- You can also get java source code using `dex2jar` (output is jar file)
- Read the java source code in jar using `jd-gui`

> **We can do all the task with ByteCode Viewer**

# Patching android app

- Now we will talk about how to patch an android app (no smali in this talk, great)
- A patch is a software update comprised code inserted (or patched) into the code of an executable program.
- Remember apktool? We use it to decompile the apk first
```bash
apktool d InsecureBankv2.apk
```
- So we go to res folder to find something interesting (why? Because this folder contains resource, and modify it is fun)
- Quickly found this in InsecureBankv2/res/values/strings.xml
```xml
<string name="is_admin">no</string>
```
- If you want to be a good pentester, you must keep in your mind:
	“If someone say no, punch him, and say yes instead”
- So modify it to yes
- We go back to base folder
- And re-compile the application:
```bash
apktool b InsecureBankv2
```

> Note that the re-compile apk is located in “dist” folder, not the old apk in current folder.

- Install it, but Oops, Failed! Its because Every new compiled Android .apk **`needs to be signed`** if it is going to be installed on a phone

## Sign apk file

- Create key using:
```bash
keytool -genkey -v -keystore my-release-key.keystore -alias alias_name -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000
```

- Sign using:
```bash
jarsigner -verbose -sigalg SHA1withRSA -digestalg SHA1 -keystore my-release-key.keystore InsecureBankv2.apk alias_name
```

- Install again.
- Still fail? It means the application which you want to install is already installed. just remove the old one and try again.

